Google's Mission, Values & Commitments - Google Jump to content About Products Commitments Stories Protecting users Expanding opportunity Including all voices Responding to crises Advancing sustainability Reports View all reports Committed to significantly improving the lives of as many people as possible. 2004 Founders’ IPO Letter Protecting users Every day Google keeps billions of people safer online. We protect our users with industry-leading security, responsible data practices, and easy-to-use privacy controls. Learn about all the ways that Google keeps your personal information private, safe, and secure. Go to Safety Center Easy-to-use privacy and security settings, all in one place—your Google Account. Go to your account Understand your tech usage, disconnect when needed, and create healthy habits. Learn more about Digital Wellbeing Developing AI practices that are responsible and sharing knowledge, research, and other resources with the world. Learn more about Responsible AI Transparency Report Sharing data that sheds light on how the policies and actions of governments and corporations affect privacy, security, and access to information. Learn more Expanding opportunity $1 billion in grants. 1 million volunteer hours. Investing in communities, individuals, and local economies by preparing them for the opportunities of today — and tomorrow. Ensuring more people have access to the skills they need to succeed in a digital world. Learn more about Grow with Google Closing education equity gaps through technology, tools, and training. Learn more about Google for Education Contributing time, money, and volunteer hours to create a world that works for everyone. Learn more about Google.org Helping organizations publicize their mission, engage supporters, and fundraise online. Learn more about Google for Nonprofits U.S. Economic Impact Report Last year, Google’s search and advertising tools helped generate $283 billion of economic activity for more than 1.5 million businesses, website publishers, and nonprofits nationwide. Learn more Including all voices Building a world where progress, equitable outcomes, diversity, and inclusion can be realities both inside and outside our workplace. Building sustainable equity for Google’s Black+ community and making our products and programs helpful to Black users. Read our commitments to racial equity Committed to building a diverse workforce that’s more representative of all people who use our products. Learn more about Diversity Technology must be accessible for everyone. We are making that a reality in everything that we build. Learn more about Accessibility 2020 Diversity Report View our systemic approach to improving outcomes in workforce representation and creating inclusive cultures. Learn More Responding to crises Helping those affected by crises through our products, our people, and our partners. We partner with first responders on the front lines of global crises by providing grants, resources, and volunteers. Learn more about Google.org Crisis Response We provide critical information to users in moments of crisis through our products and technology. Learn more about Crisis Response products Advancing sustainability We unify our practices, partnerships, and products around a single mission — to foster sustainability at scale. By organizing information about our planet, and making it actionable through technology, we help people make more positive impact together. We build technology that helps people do more for the planet. Learn more about Sustainability Google's third decade of climate action — our most ambitious yet. Learn about how we intend to operate carbon-free by 2030 2019 Environmental Report In 2018, Google matched 100% of the electricity consumption of our global operations with renewable energy for the second consecutive year. Learn more Responsible Supply Chain Report We work with more than 500 suppliers worldwide to ensure ethical and fair treatment for workers, safe and healthy workplaces, and a smaller environmental footprint. Learn more Back to top Follow us on: More about us Contact us Investor relations Careers Locations Blog Press resources Brand resource center Think with Google Policy Application security Software principles Unwanted software policy Extended workforce Community guidelines How our business works Responsibility Google.org Sustainability Crisis Response Diversity & Inclusion Accessibility Transparency Digital Wellbeing Safety Center Google Safety Engineering Center Supplier responsibility Human Rights Help Privacy Terms